In the last lecture, we listen to notification clicks,
now I want to listen to the user closing a notification and close basically means that for example
on Android or on any phone, you just swipe it away or click the X or you close all notifications.
This is what closed means, on Mac there is a close button.
You basically don't interact with it,
you don't click on it, you just close it.
So we can listen to that again in the service worker for the same reasons as why we listen to notification
click and here we listen to notification close.
Now there, we also pass a function which gets executed whenever this event occurs and we can then also
get some information about that event.
so here I simply want to log notification was closed and output the event. To demonstrate this close behavior,
I connected my real Android device again and there I reset the site settings and refresh the page
and now I'll click enable notifications again there.
Now this gives me the notification here in the top bar.
Now I could could click one of the actions but I can also just swipe it away or simply click this delete
all button here at the bottom.
So I will tap that to close all notifications
and now you see notification was closed, was fired and I get my notification event here which they basically
again hold some information about the notification
and in general, about this whole event service worker scope and so on.
So this is how we can interact with it,
notification was closed,
to be precise notification close, this event here is a great listener to for example send analytics data
to your server because the user didn't interact with your notification.
Maybe you want to store the timestamp of the notification and try to find out why users didn't interact
with it,
that is what you could typically do in this event listener here.
So with that, we learned about notification click and notification close,
that's already a lot and super important
but I'd say with the basics about notifications set, let's move on to go into the push part of this core
section.
We want to learn how we can not only display notifications by triggering it in our Javascript code but
by pushing some message from some other server to our own front-end web application. We'll do this next.